[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The Christmas Star
on the winter solstice,
a great conjunction
centuries in the making.
This is "Gaia News."
Look to the night
sky on December 21st
to see a once in a lifetime
astronomical event.
The Christmas Star will
appear in the southwestern sky
about an hour after sundown.
The so-called star
is actually two
of the brightest planets in
our solar system, Jupiter
and Saturn.
As they come together, they
will appear as one large star
or a double planet.
Jupiter and Saturn travel
together across the sky.
But about every
20 years, Jupiter
will catch up and pass Saturn.
When this happens it's
called a great conjunction.
But the last time the planets
passed so closely to each other
and in the night sky
was about 800 years ago.
This event will
remind many Christians
of the story of the Star of
Bethlehem, which led the three
wise men to the baby Jesus,
hence the name Christmas Star.
But many people
throughout the world,
not just Christians,
will celebrate
this profound occurrence
and on the winter solstice.
Andrew Collins, science and
history writer and author
of "Gobekli Tepe,
Genesis of the Gods,"
on how people will celebrate.
>> The winter solstice, where we
have this incredible planetary
alignment, where Jupiter and
Saturn will be so close that
they will virtually
appear like one beautiful,
brilliant star in the sky.
So to some people,
it's saying that this
is the true point of entry
into the age of Aquarius.
I think that's
quite extraordinary.
>> For the best chances
to see the phenomenon,
NASA recommends, find a spot
with an unobstructed view
of the sky.
An hour after sunset, look
to the Southwestern sky.
The planets can be seen
with the unaided eye.
But with binoculars, you may
see Jupiter's four moons.
Do your best to see this
phenomenon this time,
because the great conjunction
won't pass this close again
until March 2080.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."